---
title: "Oki520"
source: "OKI520.doc"
tags: [Customer Documentation]
version: "1.0"
last_updated: "2025-11-17"
short_description: "OKI 520 SETUP CONFIGURE OKI PRINTER Make sure the top left lever is set in the Rear Paper Feed Position Put Paper in..."
long_description: "Make sure the top left lever is set in the Rear Paper Feed Position Put Paper in the printer Press the Load button Take plastic cover down"
---



OKI 520 SETUP


                            CONFIGURE OKI PRINTER

Make sure the top left lever is set in the Rear Paper Feed Position
Put Paper in the printer
Press the Load button
Take plastic cover down

Ensure the printer is Offline

Press the Shift & Micro Feed button up/down as needed
Put the printer Online

Setting the Epson mode & Tear Facility

Push Shift & Menu button to put the menu light on.

Press the Group button once – this sets the printer to  print  in  emulation
mode IBM
Press the Set button and change the option to Epson FX

Press the Group button 3 times to get the Rear Feed Menu
Press the Item button once to give you Form Tear off


Press the Set button to get Form Tear Off = 500ms
Press Shift & Menu to turn the menu light off.

Put the printer Offline
Press Park
Then press Load

Press Tear 1st which moves the paper down & then shift to catch  it  at  the
bottom of its travel and prevent the paper moving back.
Then, keeping Shift held down, change the tear bottom position  using  Micro
Feed up/down. There is a red M on the plastic guard on the print head,  this
should be level to where the There is a red M on the plastic  guard  on  the
print head, this should be level  to  where  the  intends  the  printing  to
begin.

Put the printer Online
Press Tear & check it goes down to print and back to tear.

Park and turn off.  Move the paper back and test settings.

Pitch should be set to 12 for printing bills.

To configure printer to default to 12 pitch do as follows.
Select menu as above. Press group twice, and Font appears. Then  press  Item
until Pitch appears. Then press Set until 12 cpi appears. Then Shift &  Menu
to save.



ADDITIONAL CONFIGURATION FOR MULTI PART STATIONARY, I.E. CHEQUES


Press Shift & Menu and the MENU light comes on.

Press Group 4 times to get Rear Feed.
Press Item 4 times to get Gap Control.
Press Set ? times to get required gap (1 – 9  normally set to 6).

Press Shift & Menu again to take the MENU light off.
