---
title: "Nas Development April 2013"
source: "NAS Development April 2013.docx"
tags: [Development and Technical]
version: "1.0"
last_updated: "2025-11-17"
short_description: "NAS Updates April 2013 Full lot and Price Star Printing layout options Ireland: Annual Sellers and Buyers Financial and Stock figures for account..."
long_description: "Full lot and Price Star Printing layout options"
---

NAS Updates April 2013

Full lot and Price Star Printing layout options

Ireland: Annual Sellers and Buyers Financial and Stock figures for accountants

Sale Totals / Lot Lists Enhancement

Aphis Request ID

Cheques Tidy-ups

Letter Of Engagement (LOE) Addition - Ireland

Invoices -  don’t print zero value invoices

Invoices – screen tidy ups and more address info on transfer

Bank Rec – Matched Statement Archive

Buyers Credit Control Report

Media Player Northern Ireland Mode

Media Player Ireland Mode

Salering Printing Options

New Turnover Report

Aphis – NI Send Sheep Home Report (breach mart to mart 6 day rule)

After a lengthly period of development Newline has used March and April to tidy up a list of bugs and issues reported over recent times.

Full lot and Price Star Printing Layout Options

Full lot and price selling now has different layouts for printing to star printers to give sellers the prices their lots make in the salering. Tech Note: the printing method has altered to use the windows spooler. It no longer relies on sharing and mapping the star printer.

Tech Note: Need sysinfo key NEWFULLINPUTPRINTER. Version 8.0.171 alinput

Users can still have the old format which is slightly smaller text but most details on one line by ticking Old Format, or can have that unticked and get a bigger format with the average price on a separate line.

Ireland: Annual Sellers and Buyers Financial and Stock figures for accountants.

Tech: Version alinput 8.0.169 & regbuyer 7.0.158. SYSINFO 'NEWHISTORYOPTION','Y'

Search for the seller or buyer then click the seller or buyer menu option.

Old layout is like this without the sysinfo setting:

Note this layout shows the copy invoice snapshot on drill down.

New layout:

Double clicking on the row will show details or the cheque or invoice. This method shows drill down view of copy statement or invoice.

Sale Totals / Lot List enhancement

When deciding what columns to print the user can toggle the tick boxes on and off in the additional options frame by clicking untick all

and then ticking the ones they want or don’t want.

Aphis Request ID

If errors are generated when sending sheep movements to and from Aphis a unique request ID is generated by the department. This is now shown on the error screen and should be given to the Aphis tech support staff to help answer any queries.

Cheque Tidy-Ups

When scrolling on the totals at the bottom of the list of cheques and list of possible cheques it could get out of line with the  column figures above. This bug has been fixed in version 7.1.313. The new sold subject functionality caused an issue with the list of possible cheques. This bug has been resolved.

It is now possible to add a message to BACs statements.

LOE Addition

When viewing all the sellers in a sale users in Ireland will now see an LOE column to show LOE dates for clients that have signed a LOE. Note all sellers should sign an LOE before being allowed to sell.

Long term you would expect all of these sellers to have this data completed, but at the start it will show a lot of sellers who you need to get to sign LOE’s and you need to log this in the customer account, which in turn will appear in this list.

Invoices – Don’t print zero value invoices

This option is to save paper.

You still do I for invoice and U for unpaid but it will not print the paperwork. A copy is stored electronically.

Invoices – Screen Tidy Ups and More Transfer Address Info

User to only show address line 1. Now we show all the address lines.

Made it clearer who has been selected to transfer.

Bank Rec – Matched Statement Archive

Version 7.0.54. There is a tick box that lets the user view historical statements that have already been matched and reconciled. There is also the same sort of feature to view reconciled bank control account reports.

In the find cheque screen there is now a text box to show the statement number if a cheque has been matched to cross-reference the cheque back to the statement it was matched on.

Tick  and enter the statement number and press continue

Buyer Credit Control Report

Invoices Version 7.0.358

Provides a quick way of seeing what the buyers owe and what they have paid on the sales invoices.

Media Player

In Irish mode it can now display the same details as the standard 7 * 30 displasy board to include the Bruc test date if the BVD status is No BVD Test.

In Northern Irish mode it can now display the same details as the NI standard 7 * 30 display board to include farm assurance and breed details.

Salering Printing Options

Option to print breed and type and average on a separate line.

The user can tick the options they want to print out. If the use new star printer mode is not ticked but the printer option is selected to print on the first set up screen the layout will default to the basic original layout.

Bug Fix

Final Catalogue produced data field moved from remote sites to HQ sites and vice versa in the sale transfer process.

End of Sale tidy-ups on reports to ensure headers are clear and don’t merge into each other. Include contra values in all total summaries.

New Turnover Report

(Requires nasbend version 7.0.213 and regbuyer version 7.0.176)

This report can be grouped to display each sale or by a calendar month. The user ticks whichever setting they require. The report has a seller or buyer toggle option which the user must select.

In the file menu the user can print, export or print preview.

In print preview mode the user can amend between portrait and landscape by clicking page setup. The user can also fit the report to page by click the highlighted fit to page icon above.

Aphis – NI Send Sheep Home Report

This will produce a list that can be printed so the tags can be found and sent home.

In the EID software (pen reading option) there is a new menu option

When the user ticks this they can then scan tags in a pen and the stick will only go green if the eartag has been marked by Aphis as return home. The message on the stick will say Send Home. When the user has finished searching and wants to revert to normal EID reading they just select the next pen no and it continues as normal.